<article>
  <h1>Sloop frequently-asked questions</h1>

  <dl class="faq">

    <dt>What's the point of Sloop?</dt>

    <dd>
      <p>Sloop is a free Android browser for <a
      href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_data">Open Data</a>.
      A normal web browser is designed for documents full of text
      and pictures; Sloop is designed to make it easy (well, as easy
      as possible) to browse <em>structured, fielded</em> data on
      the web.</p>
      <p>Structured data isn't as pretty as documents, but you can
      do things with it like filtering, sorting, summing up, etc.
      To read more reasons why open data is a good thing, visit some
      like the <a
      href="http://www.aidtransparency.net/">International Aid
      Transparency Initiative</a>, the <a
      href="http://www.opengovpartnership.org/">Open Government
      Partnership</a>, <a href="http://data.gov">data.gov</a> (US),
      <a href="http://data.gov.uk">data.gov.uk</a> (Britain), or <a
      href="http://data.gc.ca">data.gc.ca</a> (Canada).</p>
    </dd>

    <dt>What formats does Sloop support?</dt>

    <dd>Sloop reads data collections in a simple format called
    <cite>Comma-Separated Values</cite> (CSV).  You can save CSV
    from any spreadsheet or database program, and you can also
    create CSV data collections using Google Docs.  For more
    information, see <a href="publishing.html">Publishing
    data</a>.</dd>

    <dt>How do I link to a different dataset?</dt>

    <dd>Sloop assumes that any field with a value that
    <em>looks</em> like a URL (with no extra text) actually is one.
    When the user taps the link, Sloop will check to see if the
    resource on the other end has a content type of "text/csv"; if
    so, it will try to load it as a data collection; otherwise, it
    will send it off to the Android browser (or some other app that
    can handle it).</dd>

    <dt>How can I publish CSV straight from a Google spreadsheet?</dt>

    <dd>Select "Share" for your spreadsheet and set its status to
    "Public on the web."  Then copy the sharing link and add
    "<code>output=csv&amp;</code>" immediately after the question
    mark.  For example, if the sharing link is
    "<code>https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoDV0i2WefMXdEI2VV9Xb1I5eFpBeS1HYkw5NGNqR3c&amp;usp=sharing</code>",
    you can get a CSV link by using
    <code>https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?output=csv&amp;key=0AoDV0i2WefMXdEI2VV9Xb1I5eFpBeS1HYkw5NGNqR3c&amp;usp=sharing</code>.</dd>

    <dt>What languages does Sloop support?</dt>

    <dd>The Sloop user interface is available in English, French,
    Spanish, and German.  I'd love to add more languages &mdash; if
    you can help translate, let me know, and I'll send you a simple
    text file of strings (no programming knowledge required).  I
    have not yet tested Sloop in a right-to-left language like
    Arabic, Hebrew, or Mandarin, and I'd be excited to see how it
    works.</dd>

    <dt>Why Android and not iOS?</dt>

    <dd>
      <p><a
             href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_(operating_system)">Android</a>
      is the world's most-popular mobile operating system, it's open
      source, and it's available on less-expensive devices, so (I
      hope) it will be more accessible in the developing world.
      I've been a Linux user for 20 years and a Java programmer for
      16, so Android (which is based on Linux) was a comfortable
      fit.</p>
      <p>That said, I'd be thrilled to see a Public-Domain Sloop
      port to other mobile operating systems, including <a
      href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS">iOS</a> (for the
      iPhone and iPad), <a
      href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackberry_OS">Blackberry
      OS</a>, <a
      href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_RT">Windows RT</a>
      (for the Microsoft Surface), and others, including desktop
      operating systems.  If you're interested in working on any of
      these, please let me know, and I'll provide as much
      (non-monetary) support as I can.</p>
    </dd>

    <dt>Do you support visually-impaired users?</dt>

    <dd>I don't know, but I'd like to.  If you're interested in
    helping me make Sloop more accessible, through testing and
    feedback, please get in touch.</dd>

    <dt>Why Public Domain?</dt>

    <dd>If you think about it, any software license, even an
    Open-Source license, is actually a polite threat: "if you don't
    follow my rules, I'll sue you."  I don't want to sue you, so I'm
    not making any rules that you can break.  As a Public Domain
    app, Sloop is free &mdash; <em>really</em> free &mdash; so
    enjoy.</dd>

    <dt>How can I help?</dt>

    <dd>
      <p>If you have data that might be useful to someone else, <a
      href="publishing.html">put it online</a>.  Lots of people (not
      just Sloop users) will be able to benefit.  It's easy to get
      started &mdash; if you can use a spreadsheet program, you can
      publish open data. If you have nowhere to host your open data
      on the web, let me know, and I'll add it to the Sloop site
      here.</p>
      <p>If you speak a language we don't support, volunteer to help
      translate (no programming knowledge required).</p>
      <p>If you're a software developer, <a
      href="https://github.com/davidmegginson/sloop">check us out on
      github</a>.  If you haven't tried Android coding before, this
      is a good place to start (I write lots of comments); if you're
      an experienced Android developer, then you can teach me, since
      this is my first Android project.  Make your own branch, then
      let me know when you have something to contribute back to the
      main app.  I'll give all contributors (programmers or
      otherwise) credit on a screen in the app.</p>
      <p>No matter what skills you have, you can help by using
      Sloop, sending feedback (such as bug reports or feature
      suggestions), and getting your friends and colleagues to try
      it out.</p>
    </dd>

    <dt>Why the name "Sloop"?</dt>

    <dd>Sloop is named after not the modern sailing sloop, but the
    <a
        href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sloop-of-war">Sloop-of-war</a>
    from two centuries ago.  The Sloop was a fast ship-rigged
    (three-masted) vessel, smaller than a frigate or a ship of the
    line, but still capable of crossing the ocean.  The British
    Royal Navy often used sloops to carry dispatches quickly from
    point to point all over the world &mdash; it seemed like a nice
    analogy for a small, light data browser.</dd>

  </dl>

</article>
